in the last video we saw how composition
is a powerful technique for combining
objects to create something more complex
and we built up a HTML document from
the three classes that it's composed of
the doctype a head element and a body now
aggregation is very similar and is often
described as a weak form of composition
now with composition the objects that another
object is composed of don't exist
outside of their container so in our
example looking down here on line 50
the init method for HTML doc there
instances of a doctype which is created
in a HTML doc init method on line 51 as i
mentioned and a head and a body created
on the next two lines so instances of
all three classes exist but they only
exist within the context of our HTML
doc object my_page now if we
delete my_page then those
three instances will no longer exist
either now in our program we've
indicated at the three instance
variables self dot underscored doc _
type self._head and
self dot _ body are quote unqote
private
now as we learned previously this is python
and so they're not really private as
such but there should be treated as if
they are now this program was written in
java for example there'd be no way to
change those fields from outside the
HTML dot class now I mention that
because we can change this program to
use aggregation without changing the
HTML dot class in Java for example the
code will have to be written a bit
differently so in Python the distinction
between aggregation and composition can
blur slightly in Python focus more on
the intent rather than what's possible
with language that's because in Python
just about anything is possible
alright so let's use aggregation now
to get our documents a new content then
will go ahead and rewrite the class so
that it uses aggregation rather than
composition
and then we're going to add some more
code at the end of the program here so
right down to the bottom and let's
start here on line 74 we're going to type
new....
....
...
alright so you can see what we've done
there we created a new instance of the
body class called new_body
then we added to several tags to it we
then assign the new_body object to our
documents_body attributed
directly if you run this program now
you've see we got a test 2 . HTML showing
their now and if I right click that now
and open in browser and select a
chrome in my case you select whichever
browsers relevant you can see that we've
got the new output showing their
let's just go back to the code now so
the point here is that if the my_
page object is deleted then the
new _ body object continues to
exist and could actually be used in
another document if we wanted to do that
now as I said in python the
distinction can get a little bit blurred
so what I'm going to do is change the HTML dot
class so that it's written to use
aggregation rather than composition
which is what you'd have to do in
languages like Java if you wanted an
aggregate class rather than a composite
one we go back up to the HTML . class
we defined here and what we're
going to do first is we're going to
remove the title and we're going to add
some parameters going to add the
doctype the head and the body and then
we're going to initialize them so we're
going to put...
....
...
....so now that we've done that in our HTML
. class we need to provide instances
of all three classes when we create a
new html doc object now my
original code that we have defined down
here for my page my _ page
won't work now so I'm going to actually
comment that out will comment out the
entire bit of code there and by doing
that you can see these errors further on
down in the code but we can ignore
them for now because i'm going to go
once we've created a new document
so below that now i'm going to type in...
....
..
...
...so the are only going to be
executed if the if that we defined
on line 66 returns true but what we do need to
do after the new body the adding of the
three tags is we need to assign new doc
type so let's go ahead and do that so....
...
...so what we should probably should
have done with all these code is have
it indented anyway so I'm going to just go
ahead and do that so we're going to
indent to that level and
will delete the comment because we no longer
need that anymore
delete the my page that's because we're
going to change the definition of that
my page will become...
...
we're going to leave the width open
there because that's now valid because
we've recreated our my_page
variable but we will do is just change
the filename so its test three .
HTML
it's not trying to override the previous one
we've created right so let's just open
the project pane and run to
confirm that it does work works ok and
got test three dot HTML so let's open in
browser open in chrome and we've got
working as you can see again we
don't see the title bar but we just go
back in there
view page source you can see that the
title is actually showing in the HTML
and depending on your browser you may
see that title appearing for you but for
me the way that I've configured
chrome its not showing ok so the
difference now is that the objects are
created independently of my _ page
but then passed to the constructor to
create the new document now when it's
done that way
in other words when the class is
rewritten to use aggregation rather than
composition then the difference between
aggregation and Composition becomes more
obvious note that in both cases we
still got has a relationships our new
my_page object still has a
doctype has a head element and has a
body it's just what owns those objects
that's changed now if we delete the
my_page variable the other
three objects obviously continue to
exist and can be used elsewhere in the
program and that's obviously because
we've actually defined them as
separately here on line 74 line 81 and line 82 so
that's aggregation compared to
composition so the question now is which
one should you use and when and the
answer to that is that it depends
so in this example you might want the
ability to swap out the documents
contents that can be useful and web
pages often swap out content in response
to selections for menus for example now
admittedly they tend to work on div tags
rather than swapping the entire body
section but the principles the same
now it's very unlikely that you want to
change the doctype so there's no real
reason that you couldn't use composition
for the doc type and maybe even the head
element while using aggregation for the
body design a structure of the classes
that make up a program is arguably the
hardest part of object-oriented
programming and you have to think
carefully about how the various classes
will work together and also what sort of
things you want to do with them now
sometimes the relationship is obvious
thinking back to our player class in the
game program we probably want to give
the players weapons of some sort
now there's an obvious has a
relationship there a player will have a
weapon now the weapons will probably be
strung across the dungeons waiting to be
found by the players so they need to exist
independently of the players the players
will also exchanged their weapons when
they stumble across better ones
so in that scenario you'd probably be
better off choosing aggregation rather
than composition but other times such as
our document here the relationship is less
clear you could make a case for either
aggregation or composition when
considering the body of a document it
really does depend on what you want to
do with it as we saw changing the
composition relationship to an
aggregation one isn't really that
difficult
we created the test 2 HTML document by
accessing the quote-unquote private body
attribute and replacing it if you found
your class was used like that a lot
then you could add a property so that
the body attribute was no longer hidden
and we saw how to do that a little bit
earlier in this section
alright so let's move on to the next
video